Fitbit.md
Do Fitness Trackers Improve Your Health
By: Giulia Pastore


	I wear a Fitbit. I’ve worn one since my mother gifted one to me for high school graduation. I use it mainly as a watch, to track my steps, and as an alarm. The other data it provides is handy and I check it regularly but I did not get a Fitbit so I can do things like “track my daily water intake.”
I’d say I’m pretty active; I played sports all through high school, I go to the gym during the week when my workload allows it, and spend my summers working outdoors. I wear my Fitbit every day and night (ew gross right? I swear I clean it). On the days I forget to charge it not only do I have no idea what time it is, but I also feel disappointed. This is because I really like knowing how many steps/ miles I walk in a day and when I feel like I walked a lot I like to see how much I walked in order to feel more accomplished. I’m well aware that these habits sound obsessive and pretty ridiculous because in the end wearing a watch isn’t going to help me become healthier- or is it?
I think that the concept behind fitness trackers making you healthier is simply a result of the motivation and encouragement they provide to get up and move. If I’m motivated to get up and be active I will live a healthier and more active lifestyle. My Fitbit sends alerts to remind me to walk if I’ve been sedentary for too long. I personally ignore those a lot of the time because it’s not always convenient to get up and walk around at 3:50 while I’m in class. Although I ignore “the reminders to move”, I do believe that it functions as a motivational tool in other ways. If I look down at my watch at 3:50pm and see that I’ve only taken 5000 steps which is approximately 2.5 miles I know I need to get moving! I aim to walk 10,000 steps every day which is about 5 miles. When I don’t do this I feel guilty and typically try to work out a little longer the next day.
I like to set goals- but fitness goals are always fun to make and a lot harder to accomplish. With fitness trackers you are able to create a step goal. I chose 10,000 steps a day because it is more than I would walk on an average day but still an attainable goal if I am active and or work towards it. On the days where I don’t go to the gym I still aim to hit that 10,000-step count. It makes me feel accomplished and I know is good for me. So even though I wasn’t able to get those steps in during a run on the treadmill or on an elliptical I know that I was active that day.
Unfortunately, I don’t know of any wearable technology that just makes you instantly healthier. I’m sure it will be around soon, but until then I will be sticking with my Fitbit to track my steps and keep me motivated.
